Source scrpit: In the format of .py
From compiler it will convert it into Byte code file extesion .pyc
From exicutable it will generate .PVM --> Python Virtual Machine

In python no linking 

In python we have one option interpreter: which will gives you quick results.

Decleration of variable in python: No need to worry aboubt data type based on the data python will decides its type.
If we assign a value to variable then it decide its type.

In python for single line comment used #
And for multi line comment " " " statements or 
                                 lines of codes " " "

Indentation: like c language here no use of brackets use indentation(one tab) after print in ("Indentation") program file give one more enter.

Python_Module: Python code is known as Python_Module using any IDE
To run module code in command prompt using command "Python<File_name.py>
(make sure after installing python your directory path shall be added into system environment path)

Python file extension is .py
When we install python in our system it will come with python editior(IDLE: Free IDE)
To invoke the IDLE IDE in CMD Prompt use command --> python -m idlelib file_name.py
To come from intractive prompt use ctrl z
To execute any commands in perticuler file use command python filename.py

In python integer data type is having int, float, complex
byte type: bytes, bytesarray, memeoryview

Python casting:Its like c type casting

Python OBJECT type:
Python has no any data type, It is having Objects
like

1. Numbers: Its an integer numbers.

2. Strings: Group of characters e.g "NISHALI"

3. Lists: 
          It is similer to arrays in c or other pgm language. 
          lists is mutuable that means we can change the value of any objects in lists.
          array is group of similer data but in list is having group of different data.
          The list is also identifies with an index number. use square brackets
          e.g [50, CAR, 15.3 [2, ECU_name]]

4. Dictionaries:
                Dictionarires is like a mapping. Inside the dictionaries every objects having identified with unique key and that unique key is having key values. use curly braces
                Dirctonerires not having any order.
                we can fetch them by using key.
                {'Vehicle_speed':200, 'Fault_speed':-1, 'Starting_speed':0}

5. Tuples:      It is immutable list which object value can't be change. And Tuple has any order object into it.
                for Tuple use round brackets
                e.g (10, 'A', "BMW", "INDIA")

6. Files:      If we want save any information in hardware part we have to go for files structure and even we 
               have to deal with library functions so here we need files option.

               e.g fp=Open("SpeedSamples.txt","r") 
               In example fp is a file pointer
               SpeedSamples.txt is txt file which we have to open or create
               "r" --> file mode(read)
               "W" --> is for write

7. Program Unit: Functions, Modules and Classes. those are like program building data.

8. Sets:    Sets are collection of objects, collections of different data where we can process. 
            Mathamatical expression we can deal with sets.
            e.g. sets('abc'),{'a', 'b', 'c'}

            for addition +
            for multiplication *
            for exponantion **

In-built library function_Random:
The in built library function Rasndom to generate the random integer numbers.
The in built library function Math for all maths operations
Python supports sets and boolean.

append: It is a function to item in list


Srtings:
Stores textal data.
Positive index access bytes of string from the left and negative index from the right.



